---
title: [转载] markdownlint Rules（1）
date: 2019-02-18 12:00:00
category:
- note
tag:
- markdown
- digest
---

> https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/master/doc/Rules.md

## MD001 - Heading levels should only increment by one level at a time | 标题级别一次只能增加一级

Tags: headings, headers

Aliases: heading-increment, header-increment

This rule is triggered when you skip heading levels in a markdown document, for
example:

```markdown
# Heading 1

### Heading 3

We skipped out a 2nd level heading in this document
```

When using multiple heading levels, nested headings should increase by only one
level at a time:

```markdown
# Heading 1

## Heading 2

### Heading 3

#### Heading 4

## Another Heading 2

### Another Heading 3
```

## MD002 - First heading should be a top level heading | 第一个标题应该是顶级标题

Tags: headings, headers

Aliases: first-heading-h1, first-header-h1

Parameters: level (number; default 1)

This rule is triggered when the first heading in the document isn't a h1 heading:

```markdown
## This isn't a H1 heading

### Another heading
```

The first heading in the document should be a h1 heading:

```markdown
# Start with a H1 heading

## Then use a H2 for subsections
```

Note: The `level` parameter can be used to change the top level (ex: to h2) in
cases where an h1 is added externally.

## MD003 - Heading style | 标题样式

Tags: headings, headers

Aliases: heading-style, header-style

Parameters: style ("consistent", "atx", "atx_closed", "setext",
"setext_with_atx", "setext_with_atx_closed"; default "consistent")

This rule is triggered when different heading styles (atx, setext, and 'closed'
atx) are used in the same document:

```markdown
# ATX style H1

## Closed ATX style H2 ##

Setext style H1
===============
```

Be consistent with the style of heading used in a document:

```markdown
# ATX style H1

## ATX style H2
```

The setext_with_atx and setext_with_atx_closed doc styles allow atx-style
headings of level 3 or more in documents with setext style headings:

```markdown
Setext style H1
===============

Setext style H2
---------------

### ATX style H3
```

Note: the configured heading style can be a specific style to use (atx,
atx_closed, setext, setext_with_atx, setext_with_atx_closed), or simply require
that the usage be consistent within the document.

## MD004 - Unordered list style | 无序列表样式

Tags: bullet, ul

Aliases: ul-style

Parameters: style ("consistent", "asterisk", "plus", "dash", "sublist"; default
"consistent")

This rule is triggered when the symbols used in the document for unordered
list items do not match the configured unordered list style:

```markdown
* Item 1
+ Item 2
- Item 3
```

To fix this issue, use the configured style for list items throughout the
document:

```markdown
* Item 1
* Item 2
* Item 3
```

The configured list style can be a specific symbol to use (asterisk, plus, dash),
can require that usage be consistent within the document, or can require that each
sublist have a consistent symbol that is different from its parent list.

For example, the following is valid for the `sublist` style because the outer-most
indent uses asterisk, the middle indent uses plus, and the inner-most indent uses dash:

```markdown
* Item 1
  + Item 2
    - Item 3
  + Item 4
* Item 4
  + Item 5
```

## MD005 - Inconsistent indentation for list items at the same level | 同一级别的列表项的缩进不一致

Tags: bullet, ul, indentation

Aliases: list-indent

This rule is triggered when list items are parsed as being at the same level,
but don't have the same indentation:

```markdown
* Item 1
  * Nested Item 1
  * Nested Item 2
   * A misaligned item
```

Usually this rule will be triggered because of a typo. Correct the indentation
for the list to fix it:

```markdown
* Item 1
  * Nested Item 1
  * Nested Item 2
  * Nested Item 3
```

Sequentially-ordered list markers are usually left-aligned such that all items
have the same starting column:

```markdown
...
8. Item
9. Item
10. Item
11. Item
...
```

This rule also supports right-alignment of list markers such that all items have
the same ending column:

```markdown
...
 8. Item
 9. Item
10. Item
11. Item
...
```

## MD006 - Consider starting bulleted lists at the beginning of the line | 考虑在行的开头开始项目符号列表

Tags: bullet, ul, indentation

Aliases: ul-start-left

This rule is triggered when top level lists don't start at the beginning of a
line:

```markdown
Some text

  * List item
  * List item
```

To fix, ensure that top level list items are not indented:

```markdown
Some test

* List item
* List item
```

Rationale: Starting lists at the beginning of the line means that nested list
items can all be indented by the same amount when an editor's indent function
or the tab key is used to indent. Starting a list 1 space in means that the
indent of the first nested list is less than the indent of the second level (3
characters if you use 4 space tabs, or 1 character if you use 2 space tabs).

Note: This rule is triggered for the following scenario because the unordered
sublist is not recognized as such by the parser. Not being nested 3 characters
as required by the outer ordered list, it creates a top-level unordered list
instead.

```markdown
1. List item
  - List item
  - List item
1. List item
```

## MD007 - Unordered list indentation | 无序列表缩进

Tags: bullet, ul, indentation

Aliases: ul-indent

Parameters: indent (number; default 2)

This rule is triggered when list items are not indented by the configured
number of spaces (default: 2).

Example:

```markdown
* List item
   * Nested list item indented by 3 spaces
```

Corrected Example:

```markdown
* List item
  * Nested list item indented by 2 spaces
```

Rationale (2 space indent): indenting by 2 spaces allows the content of a
nested list to be in line with the start of the content of the parent list
when a single space is used after the list marker.

Rationale (4 space indent): Same indent as code blocks, simpler for editors to
implement. See
<https://www.cirosantilli.com/markdown-style-guide/#indentation-of-content-inside-lists> for more
information.

In addition, this is a compatibility issue with multi-markdown parsers, which
require a 4 space indents. See
<http://support.markedapp.com/discussions/problems/21-sub-lists-not-indenting>
for a description of the problem.

Note: This rule applies to a sublist only if its parent lists are all also
unordered (otherwise, extra indentation of ordered lists interferes with the
rule).

## MD009 - Trailing spaces | 尾随空格

Tags: whitespace

Aliases: no-trailing-spaces

Parameters: br_spaces, list_item_empty_lines (number; default 2, boolean; default false)

This rule is triggered on any lines that end with unexpected whitespace. To fix this,
remove the trailing space from the end of the line.

The `br_spaces` parameter allows an exception to this rule for a specific number
of trailing spaces, typically used to insert an explicit line break. The default
value allows 2 spaces to indicate a hard break (\<br> element).

Note: You must set `br_spaces` to a value >= 2 for this parameter to take effect.
Setting `br_spaces` to 1 behaves the same as 0, disallowing any trailing spaces.

Using spaces to indent blank lines inside a list item is usually not necessary,
but some parsers require it. Set the `list_item_empty_lines` parameter to `true`
to allow this:

```markdown
- list item text
  [2 spaces]
  list item text
```

## MD010 - Hard tabs | 严格标签

Tags: whitespace, hard_tab

Aliases: no-hard-tabs

Parameters: code_blocks (boolean; default true)

This rule is triggered by any lines that contain hard tab characters instead
of using spaces for indentation. To fix this, replace any hard tab characters
with spaces instead.

Example:

```markdown
Some text

	* hard tab character used to indent the list item
```

Corrected example:

```markdown
Some text

    * Spaces used to indent the list item instead
```

You have the option to exclude this rule for code blocks. To do so, set the
`code_blocks` parameter to `false`. Code blocks are included by default since
handling of tabs by tools is often inconsistent (ex: using 4 vs. 8 spaces).


## MD011 - Reversed link syntax | 反向链接语法

Tags: links

Aliases: no-reversed-links

This rule is triggered when text that appears to be a link is encountered, but
where the syntax appears to have been reversed (the `[]` and `()` are
reversed):

```markdown
(Incorrect link syntax)[https://www.example.com/]
```

To fix this, swap the `[]` and `()` around:

```markdown
[Correct link syntax](https://www.example.com/)
```

Note: [Markdown Extra](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown_Extra)-style footnotes do not trigger this rule:

```markdown
For (example)[^1]
```

## MD012 - Multiple consecutive blank lines | 多个连续的空白行

Tags: whitespace, blank_lines

Aliases: no-multiple-blanks

Parameters: maximum (number; default 1)

This rule is triggered when there are multiple consecutive blank lines in the
document:

```markdown
Some text here


Some more text here
```

To fix this, delete the offending lines:

```markdown
Some text here

Some more text here
```

Note: this rule will not be triggered if there are multiple consecutive blank
lines inside code blocks.

Note: The `maximum` parameter can be used to configure the maximum number of
consecutive blank lines.

## MD013 - Line length | 行长度

Tags: line_length

Aliases: line-length

Parameters: line_length, code_blocks, tables, headings, headers (number; default 80, boolean; default true)

> If `headings` is not provided, `headers` (deprecated) will be used.

This rule is triggered when there are lines that are longer than the
configured line length (default: 80 characters). To fix this, split the line
up into multiple lines.

This rule has an exception where there is no whitespace beyond the configured
line length. This allows you to still include items such as long URLs without
being forced to break them in the middle.

You have the option to exclude this rule for code blocks, tables, or headings.
To do so, set the `code_blocks`, `tables`, or `headings` parameter(s) to false.

Code blocks are included in this rule by default since it is often a
requirement for document readability, and tentatively compatible with code
rules. Still, some languages do not lend themselves to short lines.

## MD014 - Dollar signs used before commands without showing output |  在命令之前使用的美元符号，不显示输出

Tags: code

Aliases: commands-show-output

This rule is triggered when there are code blocks showing shell commands to be
typed, and the shell commands are preceded by dollar signs ($):

```markdown
$ ls
$ cat foo
$ less bar
```

The dollar signs are unnecessary in the above situation, and should not be
included:

```markdown
ls
cat foo
less bar
```

However, an exception is made when there is a need to distinguish between
typed commands and command output, as in the following example:

```markdown
$ ls
foo bar
$ cat foo
Hello world
$ cat bar
baz
```

Rationale: it is easier to copy and paste and less noisy if the dollar signs
are omitted when they are not needed. See
<https://www.cirosantilli.com/markdown-style-guide/#dollar-signs-in-shell-code>
for more information.

## MD018 - No space after hash on atx style heading | 在atx样式标题上散列后没有空格

Tags: headings, headers, atx, spaces

Aliases: no-missing-space-atx

This rule is triggered when spaces are missing after the hash characters
in an atx style heading:

```markdown
#Heading 1

##Heading 2
```

To fix this, separate the heading text from the hash character by a single
space:

```markdown
# Heading 1

## Heading 2
```

## MD019 - Multiple spaces after hash on atx style heading | 在atx样式标题上散列后的多个空格

Tags: headings, headers, atx, spaces

Aliases: no-multiple-space-atx

This rule is triggered when more than one space is used to separate the
heading text from the hash characters in an atx style heading:

```markdown
#  Heading 1

##  Heading 2
```

To fix this, separate the heading text from the hash character by a single
space:

```markdown
# Heading 1

## Heading 2
```

## MD020 - No space inside hashes on closed atx style heading | 在关闭的atx样式标题上没有内部空间的空间

Tags: headings, headers, atx_closed, spaces

Aliases: no-missing-space-closed-atx

This rule is triggered when spaces are missing inside the hash characters
in a closed atx style heading:

```markdown
#Heading 1#

##Heading 2##
```

To fix this, separate the heading text from the hash character by a single
space:

```markdown
# Heading 1 #

## Heading 2 ##
```

Note: this rule will fire if either side of the heading is missing spaces.

## MD021 - Multiple spaces inside hashes on closed atx style heading | 封闭的atx样式标题内的哈希内部的多个空格

Tags: headings, headers, atx_closed, spaces

Aliases: no-multiple-space-closed-atx

This rule is triggered when more than one space is used to separate the
heading text from the hash characters in a closed atx style heading:

```markdown
#  Heading 1  #

##  Heading 2  ##
```

To fix this, separate the heading text from the hash character by a single
space:

```markdown
# Heading 1 #

## Heading 2 ##
```

Note: this rule will fire if either side of the heading contains multiple
spaces.

## MD022 - Headings should be surrounded by blank lines | 标题应该用空白行包围

Tags: headings, headers, blank_lines

Aliases: blanks-around-headings, blanks-around-headers

This rule is triggered when headings (any style) are either not preceded or not
followed by a blank line:

```markdown
# Heading 1
Some text

Some more text
## Heading 2
```

To fix this, ensure that all headings have a blank line both before and after
(except where the heading is at the beginning or end of the document):

```markdown
# Heading 1

Some text

Some more text

## Heading 2
```

Rationale: Aside from aesthetic reasons, some parsers, including kramdown, will
not parse headings that don't have a blank line before, and will parse them as
regular text.

## MD023 - Headings must start at the beginning of the line | 标题必须从行的开头开始

Tags: headings, headers, spaces

Aliases: heading-start-left, header-start-left

This rule is triggered when a heading is indented by one or more spaces:

```markdown
Some text

  # Indented heading
```

To fix this, ensure that all headings start at the beginning of the line:

```markdown
Some text

# Heading
```

Rationale: Headings that don't start at the beginning of the line will not be
parsed as headings, and will instead appear as regular text.

## MD024 - Multiple headings with the same content | 具有相同内容的多个标题

Tags: headings, headers

Aliases: no-duplicate-heading, no-duplicate-header

Parameters: siblings_only, allow_different_nesting (boolean; default `false`)

This rule is triggered if there are multiple headings in the document that have
the same text:

```markdown
# Some text

## Some text
```

To fix this, ensure that the content of each heading is different:

```markdown
# Some text

## Some more text
```

Rationale: Some markdown parses generate anchors for headings based on the
heading name, and having headings with the same content can cause problems with
this.

If the parameter `siblings_only` (alternatively `allow_different_nesting`) is
set to `true`, heading duplication is allowed for non-sibling headings (common
in change logs):

```markdown
# Change log

## 1.0.0

### Features

## 2.0.0

### Features
```

## MD025 - Multiple top level headings in the same document | 同一文档中的多个顶级标题

Tags: headings, headers

Aliases: single-h1

Parameters: level (number; default 1)

This rule is triggered when a top level heading is in use (the first line of
the file is a h1 heading), and more than one h1 heading is in use in the
document:

```markdown
# Top level heading

# Another top level heading
```

To fix, structure your document so that there is a single h1 heading that is
the title for the document, and all later headings are h2 or lower level
headings:

```markdown
# Title

## Heading

## Another heading
```

Rationale: A top level heading is a h1 on the first line of the file, and
serves as the title for the document. If this convention is in use, then there
can not be more than one title for the document, and the entire document
should be contained within this heading.

Note: The `level` parameter can be used to change the top level (ex: to h2) in
cases where an h1 is added externally.

## MD026 - Trailing punctuation in heading | 标题中的尾随标点符号

Tags: headings, headers

Aliases: no-trailing-punctuation

Parameters: punctuation (string; default ".,;:!?")

This rule is triggered on any heading that has a punctuation character as the
last character in the line:

```markdown
# This is a heading.
```

To fix this, remove any trailing punctuation:

```markdown
# This is a heading
```

Note: The punctuation parameter can be used to specify what characters class
as punctuation at the end of the heading. For example, you can set it to
`".,;:!"` to allow headings with question marks in them, such as might be used
in an FAQ.

## MD027 - Multiple spaces after blockquote symbol | blockquote符号后的多个空格

Tags: blockquote, whitespace, indentation

Aliases: no-multiple-space-blockquote

This rule is triggered when blockquotes have more than one space after the
blockquote (`>`) symbol:

```markdown
>  This is a block quote with bad indentation
>  there should only be one.
```

To fix, remove any extraneous space:

```markdown
> This is a blockquote with correct
> indentation.
```

## MD028 - Blank line inside blockquote | blockquote中的空行

Tags: blockquote, whitespace

Aliases: no-blanks-blockquote

This rule is triggered when two blockquote blocks are separated by nothing
except for a blank line:

```markdown
> This is a blockquote
> which is immediately followed by

> this blockquote. Unfortunately
> In some parsers, these are treated as the same blockquote.
```

To fix this, ensure that any blockquotes that are right next to each other
have some text in between:

```markdown
> This is a blockquote.

And Jimmy also said:

> This too is a blockquote.
```

Alternatively, if they are supposed to be the same quote, then add the
blockquote symbol at the beginning of the blank line:

```markdown
> This is a blockquote.
>
> This is the same blockquote.
```

Rationale: Some markdown parsers will treat two blockquotes separated by one
or more blank lines as the same blockquote, while others will treat them as
separate blockquotes.